# DALL-E Clone MERN Stack Application

(Full MERN Stack Application DALL-E Clone using the OpenAI DALL-E API)

Techonologies Used:
* MongoDB (Backend Database)
* Mongoose (Backend MongoDB client)
* Express.js (Backend Coding)
* Node.js (Server-side scripting)
* CORS (Handles cross-origin requests)
* React.js (Frontend Coding)
* Vite (Frontend Framework)
* Tailwind CSS (Frontend Styling)
* React-router-dom (Routing Navigation)
* FileSaver (Saving and allowing file downloads from website)
* Dotenv (Configure environment variables)
* Cloudinary (Store images generated by this clone on the Cloud)

There are 2 main pages in the website, first is for the production of AI generated images and the second one is to share the newly generated image to the community of this Dall-e clone. The images shared to the community can be hovered over to see who generated it and also see the prompt used for producing that particular image. From this same hover card, the image can be downloaded to view on the local system. The output screenshots as well as downloaded images are provided in the `output-screenshots/` directory.

***
Post Note:

The images beginning with the string `download` are the images that were AI generated and downloaded from the Community veiwing page of this website. Where as the others are screenshots of the website to show the UI and the Website Design.

***

***TO RUN THIS PROJECT:***
* STEP 1) Clone this project from [this](https://github.com/aryan-mehta05/dall-e-clone) page or download the files and save them in a new project folder.
* STEP 2) Open the project in a new IDE instance.

**FOR CLIENT SIDE**
* STEP 3) Run `npx create vite@latest` and choose the `javascript` framework, and if it asks you to name your project, name it as ***client***. Replace the *client* folder downloaded from this project with the new folder and copy all the client folder files into this new folder.
* STEP 4) Open a new terminal and `cd client`.
* STEP 5) Next run `npm install` (This install all required dependencies)
* STEP 6) `npm run dev` to run the project's frontend.

**FOR SERVER SIDE**
* STEP 7) `cd server` and make sure you're in the server directory.
* STEP 8) Run `npm install` to install all the dependencies.
* STEP 9) Create a `.env` file in the server directory. In this file initialize these following variables:
    1. `OPENAI_API_KEY = <your-api-key>` (You will need to create a new ***OpenAI*** account or register using your email)
    2. `MONGODB_URL = <your-db-url>` (You will need to create a new ***MongoDB*** account or register using your email) You will need to copy and paste the URL from `deployment/database/connect/connect-using-url`
    3. `CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME = <your-cloud-name>` (You will need to create a new ***Cloudinary*** account or register using your email)
    4. `CLOUDINARY_API_KEY = <your-api-key>` (You will need to create a new ***Cloudinary*** account or register using your email)
    5. `CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET = <your-api-secret>` (You will need to create a new ***Cloudinary*** account or register using your email)
* STEP 10) Once all this is done, `npm start` to run the backend of the project.

***REMEMBER TO RUN BOTH THE FRONTEND AND BACKEND SCRIPTS IN DIFFERENT TERMINAL INSTANCES TO RUN THE PROJECT USING THE COMMANDS GIVEN***

